# Features {#concept_60367_zh .concept}

NAS provides a wide variety of features, such as scalable capacity, shared access, support for several standard protocols, security and compliance, encryption, flexible access modes, data transmission, and data backup.

## Scalable capacity {#section_ozb_rsb_bhb .section}

The capacity of a file system is scalable. With an increasing or decreasing number of files, the capacity of the file system can be scaled up or down.

## Shared access {#section_gdn_vsb_bhb .section}

Multiple computational instances share access to the same data source in a file system and use file locks to ensure data consistency.

## Support for several standard protocols {#section_gdz_bl1_1hb .section}

Provides standard Network File System \(NFS\) and Server Message Block \(SMB\) protocols and supports mainstream Linux and Windows operating systems.

## Security and compliance { .section}

Access control mechanisms, such as RAM authentication, VPC isolation, and security groups, ensure data security.

-   For more information about access control by using permission groups, see [Manage the access permissions of a file system](../../../../reseller.en-US/User Guide/Use permission groups.md#).
-   For more information about authorization for RAM users, see [Manage the access permissions of file system resources](../../../../reseller.en-US/User Guide/Use RAM to grant RAM users the NAS permission.md#).

## Encryption {#section_itn_dtb_bhb .section}

Encrypted data transmission prevents user data from being intercepted or sniffed during transmission.

## Flexible access modes {#section_hnb_ftb_bhb .section}

Supports multiple access modes. You can access NAS from various networks, such as VPCs, on-premises IDCs, and dedicated networks.

## Data transmission {#section_ivv_3tb_bhb .section}

Supports synchronous or asynchronous data transmission between NAS file systems or between NAS and OSS by using Data Transmission Service \(DTS\).

## Data backup {#section_af3_mtb_bhb .section}

Multiple copies of data can be generated by using flexible backup policies. These data backups are used to restore corrupted data.

